Dear colleagues, I hope that you have successfully completed the tasks from the workbook for the second part.
And I suggest that we move on to the third part of our course, namely the methodology of assessing personnel.
I would like to warn you that by the end of this part you will know a lot about the assessment of personnel.
Therefore, the third part of the workbook contains rather complex tasks.
You will not only have to answer the questions of a test-like nature and choose the correct answer from several given options.
You will have to apply all the knowledge you will receive by that time to answer the questions.
Therefore, I recommend that you be very attentive.
So, the methodologies and technologies.
When using different technologies of assessing personnel, those that we have considered,
different private specific methods can be used.
I would divide them into three groups.
The first is the methodology of assessing the work of a person.
The second is the methodology of assessing the knowledge of qualifications and competences.
And the third is the quantitative assessment of the quality indicators of behavior.
The last one is probably the most complex, but I think we will figure it out.
Let's start with the methodology of assessing the work of a person.
Let's start with the fact that there are four principles according to which we can assess the work.
And violation of these principles usually leads to failure in our entire assessment of personnel.
So, the first one.
We have to choose the correct indicators.
And it is very easy to choose the wrong ones.
We will see later which indicators are correct and which are not.
When choosing indicators, we should also keep in mind that they can be absolute or relative.
The absolute one is, for example, 648 something.
A kilogram, a thousand dollars, kilometers of the path.
And it can be relative.
For example, 15% of something.
From the plan, or from what the unit has done in general, or from what the best worker of the unit does.
It is not so important.
In fact, we should well imagine that in some cases absolute indicators are important for us, and in others relative.
We will deal with this a little later.
The second important point is the choice of representative intervals of time.
Tell me, please, is it possible to assess the work of a manager,
under the leadership of which there are 8 people, in one day?
I'm afraid it's difficult, right?
And in two days?
And in a month?
And in a quarter?
And in a year?
In short, there are such intervals of time,
during which we have criteria to assess the work as the best or the worst.
At larger intervals of time it doesn't make sense.
At smaller intervals of time we simply won't see what's going on.
The third, the analysis of the dynamics of human work over time is extremely important.
We have already talked a little about this.
It is very important for us to understand not only how he is now,
but whether his indicators are improving or deteriorating, or remain the same.
This is one of the goals of our assessment,
to predict what a person will do next,
and to do this we need to understand in which direction the trend is developing.
And finally, an extremely important point is the account of the influence of so-called external factors,
that is, those factors that can be assessed, their influence can be seen,
but they do not reflect the indicators of human work in any way,
and do not give us any special grounds to assess this work in a positive or negative direction.
How can we choose the indicators that will be correct?
The indicators must correspond to the nature of human work,
that is, they must reflect exactly what we can assess as a good or bad worker, or average,
and not something else.
The second point is that the indicators for different jobs, for different workers,
must be comparable to each other.
If we measure the indicators for one worker in one unit,
for another in a completely different one,
and we cannot compare them with each other,
how can we measure the effectiveness and assess the work?
In other words, the method of comparison must be provided.
The third point is the reflection of the capabilities of the worker himself.
What do I mean?
We must assess the indicators that reflect what a person is able to influence.
If he is not able to influence, then, I'm sorry,
we will hardly get anything correct and can judge his work.
Let's imagine a very simple example.
Let's say we have two shopping centers that sell cell phones.
But one of these shopping centers is located somewhere far away,
on the periphery, in the back yards of a small residential block,
and the other is located near the subway, where a large number of people pass.
Which one do you think will bring more profit?
Obviously, the second one.
It's just better located.
Can this serve as an indicator of the quality of the work of the employees?
No way.
The next question that often raises doubts,
and which is also quite intriguing,
as is the case with most of the issues related to the assessment of the staff,
is the correspondence of indicators that we use in the interests of the enterprise.
You may ask, how can the indicators of the work not correspond to the interests of the enterprise?
It's very simple.
We want the employee in the shopping center to bring as much profit as possible to the enterprise.
And therefore, as the main indicator of his work,
we set the sales volume,
how much money he sold for a certain time,
for example, in a week or a month.
What do we get as a result?
All our managers of the shopping center will run after those buyers
who want to buy a refrigerator, or a TV, or a computer,
but they are absolutely not interested in those visitors who want to buy a mouse for a vacuum cleaner,
or something cheap.
They will run after such buyers,
not pay attention to them,
excuse me for the expression, but will not go to our store.
Does this behavior of the seller correspond to the interests of our company?
Of course, it does not.
Why is it so?
And we have created such an indicator.
So, every time we have to set such indicators of work
that would meet the interests of our company as a whole.
In brackets, I note that the KPI system is optimal for this,
but we remember that its application is associated with certain difficulties.
And finally, there is such a criterion as reasonable sufficiency.
What does it mean?
People with an engineering and technical approach usually think
that the more different indicators we introduce,
the more accurately we will evaluate the work of a person.
This is not so.
As you know, there is a magic number 7 plus minus 2.
This is the volume of human attention,
the volume of short-term memory,
and the so-called control norm.
Due to its psychological features,
a person is not able to evaluate and control more than 5, 7 plus minus 2 objects.
If we introduce an evaluation system of 15, 20, 30 indicators,
it means that we cannot say anything special about these indicators.
Although we have evaluated everything from all sides,
it turns out that some indicators are worse than others,
according to the law of large numbers.
And what happens as a result?
All our employees are about the same.
So, we need to introduce only those key indicators
that really allow us to say whether a person works well or not.
We are not interested in all other indicators.
And we do not need to multiply super-measures.
To better understand what has just been said,
let's look at two examples.
Example number 1.
Imagine a woman who works as a cashier,
and now they are called the owners of the cash register,
in a huge supermarket.
So, customers come to her with their carts full of goods.
And we have a task to ensure career growth,
to select the best,
to make the system of labor payment transparent and tied to the results,
and to evaluate the work of these cash registers.
What indicators can we choose for this?
Let's take such an indicator as the number of serviced customers.
What does it reflect?
It seems to reflect the work of our cash register owner.
But imagine that one of them missed 50 customers,
each of whom had matches and a bottle of kefir in his cart.
And the second one missed only 5 people,
but they had overloaded carts full of goods.
And each of these customers brought us a profit,
let's say, 300 times more than the number of matches, matches and kefir.
Then a good indicator would be the volume of revenue
that passes through the cash register.
But again, it doesn't work.
It's very simple.
How do you think, will a cash register owner influence
how much and what goods a particular customer will put in his cart?
No.
He will sit at the cash register,
he is not a merchandiser,
he does not advertise any goods,
he just checks.
So, these indicators cannot reflect the quality of his work,
simply because it does not affect them in any way.
Let's remember the principle of the correlation of the indicators of work
and the capabilities of our worker.
In many cases, in such stores,
in such large supermarkets,
there are advertising promotions.
Certain goods are promoted,
these goods become priority,
suppliers want to sell more of them.
Maybe this is a new product,
maybe this is a propaganda and development of the store's sales brand.
So, there is such a thing as a priority product,
the one that would be good to be sold more.
Can we assess the work of our cash register
through the quantity or quality of the sold priority goods?
No.
It will not run around the shopping mall.
The maximum it can do is to check,
to be interested or to offer to buy a particular product.
But then we will complicate its work.
We will have queues,
and this is good,
no, this is bad,
we do not like it.
This will cause indignation of the customers.
So, three indicators that seem to be very good
and reflect the work of cash registers
are not really suitable for our criteria.
And what is suitable?
It turns out that there are only two indicators.
The first is the number of released or scanned goods per unit of time.
One cash registerer scans 3,000 goods per shift,
and the other, let's say, 15,000.
This means that one cash register works very fast,
performs its function,
therefore, it quickly lets the buyers through,
it does not create queues.
This is a good indicator.
This is a much better indicator
than the number of missed buyers,
which our cash register does not affect,
or the indicator of the volume of the proceeds through the cash register,
which it also does not affect.
It affects only one thing.
How many times does it scan goods per unit of time?
Is this enough? No, it is not.
Because it is also very important for us
how many mistakes it makes.
How many times does it ask the senior cash registerer
to come to it with a key and scan a check?
Because it has missed twice,
missed, missed again,
it starts a gentle and affectionate conversation with the buyer,
who is tired of all this.
This means that this number of mistakes should also be taken into account.
These are two indicators that more or less correspond to our criteria.
Agree, they are slightly less obvious
than the indicators that we considered as incorrect.
Now, let's go to the shopping hall of our store.
Let's assume that we are going to implement
a fairly complex household appliance,
electrical appliances,
fridges, TVs,
video cameras, and so on.
And in our hall there are managers
who have to work with the buyer,
explain what he buys,
why he buys it,
why it is so expensive,
recommend, show, and so on.
This is its function.
We want this from the manager in the shopping hall.
Or a sales consultant, as they are also called.
Let's try to introduce two indicators into their work.
The first one is the number of goods that they have missed.
For example, he missed 30 units during the shift.
This is better than if he missed 10 units.
Three times.
And we are also very interested in the volume of his sales.
The one who missed goods for, let's say, 500,000 rubles
is, of course, five times better than the one who missed 100,000 rubles.
These are good indicators.
At first glance, it seems that they are quite relevant
and meet our tasks, and so on.
But let's see.
The number of goods and the volume of sales
are they only dependent on the work of our respected consultant?
No.
They depend on where our shopping mall is located.
How popular is the brand of your store?
How well-known is it?
How convenient is its location?
In the end, it depends on the time of year.
Is it before the New Year, when everyone runs to buy gifts?
Or after the New Year, when we experience the consequences
of what we bought and used during the New Year holidays?
These are two indicators that somehow reflect the work of our sales consultant
or manager of the shopping mall.
But it may turn out that these indicators work against us.
That is, the principle of compliance with the interests of our enterprise is violated.
Let's say we set our consultant's work evaluation criteria
as the volume of sales.
That is, how many rubles did he sell in two shifts per week?
An interesting question.
As soon as we do this, our respected consultants will start running
after buyers who want to buy expensive goods
and ignore those who want to buy something cheap.
There are many such examples.
Thus, we stimulate the behavior of our employees
so that they work against the interests of our enterprise.
What indicators can be correct?
First, we will have to introduce such a useful and very important thing as standards,
that is, plans.
Plans can be set in different ways,
but it is best to set them based on the specifics of the location
and other characteristics of our given shopping mall.
If we evaluate the enterprises in a favorable or unfavorable zone
based on the same indicators,
or if some other factors influence them,
most likely some of them will be bad all the time,
and others will be good all the time.
Let's make it easier.
Let's set different plans.
We will evaluate a person based on whether he has fulfilled this plan or not.
In addition, we will remember the principle of compliance with human capabilities.
If one of our sales consultants is a beginner and has only been working for a month,
and the other is an old Zubr who has been here for 4 years and knows everything perfectly,
and knows everything perfectly,
and has passed training, and so on,
then, of course, the second one will be more effective.
So we need to set a different plan.
But we will notice that the reward system is also important.
What about the sales of priority goods?
When we discussed the owner of the cash register or cashier,
we found out that she does not influence these sales in any special way.
And the consultant is in his hands.
He can advise to buy a brand that is not very well known,
not very popular yet.
He can explain why this particular product is worth buying,
what are its consumer properties.
He can talk to our customer clearly.
So this criterion will also be correct for him.
Speaking about the work of a sales consultant in a trading room,
we have touched on the question of how long it should be to evaluate his work.
For a shift, for a week, for a month.
It seems to me that it is quite difficult to evaluate during a shift.
It is such a small interval for assessment.
Now we will look at an example that clearly shows
how to choose a representative interval for assessment.
Let's take a sales manager,
but he does not work in a supermarket,
but in a company or a company in a trading house.
He sells industrial goods, food, clothing, TNP in large quantities.
He can sell it to end consumers,
to production enterprises that use this product for their own production.
Or he can sell it to small wholesalers or retailers.
We will not even consider what criteria we evaluate its effectiveness.
Let's take the simplest one, we will not evaluate how long it is now,
whether it is suitable for this case or not.
This is the volume of sales.
How much, for what amount did our sales manager sell the product in a single hour?
On the graph, you can see the dynamics of its sales per month.
Agree that the curve is quite uneven.
In January, he did much less than in February,
this is understandable, everyone is resting in January.
In March, for some reason, he did a little less,
and then he jumped again, and in April there was a drop again,
but in May there was a lot.
We will not even consider whether it works well or not,
and what is the dynamics of its sales over time.
If we try to evaluate sales not in months, but in quarters,
we will see a much smoother curve.
It is clear that the overall trend is up.
The rest is possible due to the effects of some external factors,
such as seasonal factors or some other factors.
Let's consider separately the value of the dynamics of the growth of indicators
for the assessment of the work of our employee.
As an example, let's take our favorite sales managers again.
Let it be, as in the previous example,
managers for large, medium or small-scale sales of a small company.
What they sell is not very important to us.
In this case, we will take an indicator that is not absolute, but relative.
That is, the percentage of the sales of the entire department in a certain period,
let it be a year.
Look, Mr. Balaganov sold only 3% of the total sales volume.
It turns out that this is very little.
Kozlevich, Panikovsky and Polyhaev, 5-7%,
it seems better, but also bad.
Here we notice that it is necessary to take into account how much time they worked.
If Balaganov works for 2 months, then he sold so little.
It means that our percentage should be reduced to the interval of time.
Maybe average by month.
Bender, Berlag and Vorobyaninov have a better case.
Such a line, 8-12%.
We have two heroes, Mrs. Gritsatsueva and Mr. Koreiko.
Gritsatsueva 20%, and Koreiko is the hero of our time, 30%.
Well done.
Can we, based on this graph,
taking into account the duration of our managers' work in this department,
judge who works better, who works worse, and what are their indicators.
Let's look at the next graph.
Example 4.
Now let's look at the quarters and the year of our indicator.
Look what's going on.
Berlag was average, but he has a constant drop from the first to the fourth quarter.
What does this mean?
Something is wrong with this person.
His indicators are decreasing.
And here we have comrade Bender.
Look, in the first quarter, almost nothing, then higher, higher, higher.
And by the end of the year, his indicators significantly overlap the indicators of the same Berlag.
Here we have a clear tendency to growth.
A completely different assessment of a person's work.
And here is Mrs. Gritsatsueva, who was highly rated by us,
if you remember, she is the second in the rating.
She is somewhere in the middle, so she is hanging around the indicators,
neither higher nor lower.
And here I will ask a question.
Why does Gritsatsueva have 20% sales per unit?
She is such a good seller, she knows how to work so well.
What is it connected with?
The answer was very simple.
Do you know the name of the head of the sales department?
If you don't, I'll tell you, Gritsatsuev.
Here we have a vivid example of how external factors,
not taken into account by us, can affect the indicators of a particular worker.
I took this example, I did not invent it, I took it from life.
Summing up the work assessment, I would like to add one more very significant detail.
All workers can be divided into two categories.
The first category is people who produce a certain,
calculated, subject to a certain number of assessments, result.
Well, it is clear that the one who has the best result is the best,
and the one who has the worst is probably not so good.
There are people who do not produce such a result.
For example, what is the task of our dear cashier?
It is to check checks and not to make mistakes.
These are people whose task is not to produce results,
but to carry out a certain production process,
without making any violations, mistakes,
and without going beyond the framework of the company's requirements,
at the enterprise, standards, rules, and so on.
Probably one of the most vivid examples is accounting.
Finally, there are people who are responsible for the work of the units,
the departments, and the management staff.
And when assessing them, the most important thing is, of course,
the results of the work of the departments or departments they head.
If we return to the first two categories,
the category of people who produce results,
for example, our dear manager of the trading room,
and people who carry out processes,
for example, accounting,
then the question is often raised,
how to assess these people who do not produce any tangible result,
but simply carry out a process.
In this regard, I would like to tell you an old story about the wise king Solomon,
who, as you know, paid his doctor when he was healthy,
but did not pay when he was sick.
It is clear that if he paid when he was sick, he would be sick all the time.
From here, the moral.
If you want to introduce a system of assessment of workers who carry out a process,
and they require the correct execution of the process,
then consider those who do it correctly good,
and those who do it wrong and violate it, not good.
Let's move on to the questions of assessment of knowledge, qualifications and competencies.
There are several questions that need to be addressed at once.
These are questions about who assesses,
we talked a little about this.
These are the managers, self-assessment, expert assessment,
and assessment by a certain group of colleagues, subordinates,
external and internal clients of our assessment,
and the question is how to assess the work of the managers.
What can be assessed?
We talked about the behavior at work, the results of work.
We just talked about it.
In the case of expert assessment,
the results of the implementation of practical exercises can be assessed,
which somehow imitates the behavior of a person at work, in a working situation.
But in addition there are tests, tasks, and so-called cases.
This is another loan from the English language,
which can be translated into Russian as a specific situation or a specific case.
Let's try to deal with the last three situations
and understand what it is, where and how it can be used.
Let's start with tests.
How is the test arranged?
The tests are arranged in a narrow range,
so-called knowledge tests.
They should be used to understand whether a person knows what he should know or not.
The easiest way is to ask questions,
to give several options for answers,
who recommends three options, who recommends five options,
one or several, usually one of which is correct, the rest are incorrect.
Let's take an example.
Suppose you want to know how much an HR employee
owns the positions of the Labor Code.
And here is a test, where such a question appears.
Does the task assigned to an employee who is already working in an organization allow it?
Does it allow it, does it not, does it allow it in specific cases?
In this situation, I do not ask you to answer this question.
I hope you know the correct answer.
The pathos here is that we can quickly, effectively and accurately assess the knowledge of something.
Technology, position, instructions, laws, textbooks,
that is, some texts where you can know or not know.
And a person shows his knowledge or not.
The most prominent and well-known today is the United States exam,
which we have recently conducted, which is based on this principle.
Who wrote it? Eugene Onegin, Pushkin, Tolstoy or Chekhov.
Is this enough?
Not always.
The fact is that we are not engaged in education,
we are not an educational institution,
and we do not always have the task of checking the knowledge of a person,
well, of a certain text, let's say.
Does he know the position or not?
For us, it is often interesting whether he can apply these positions.
The task is used for this.
An example of such a task.
In the same material that we have just discussed.
You intend to assign a leadership position to an employee,
but you are not sure that he will cope with it.
How will you do it?
Appoint a trial period, appoint a temporary executive position,
or simply appoint a position, and if unsuccessful, return it to the previous one.
These are the three options for the answer.
You need to show the knowledge of the fact that a person working in an organization,
according to the labor code, cannot be subjected to a trial.
You also need to understand how an italian article is applicable in this situation.
The task is different in that there is a situation
where you need not just to show knowledge and find the right answer,
but to apply this knowledge to a specific situation.
I want to say that in a number of situations,
the task is not just to know the position,
the position of a particular document,
instruction or rule,
but to know several positions at once.
In other words, there are situations where you need to remember
several different positions and combine them into one.
For those who took the exam for a driver's license,
this situation is very familiar.
In the exam, there are pictures where you need to choose
who should give way to whom in this situation.
Here, it often turns out that the knowledge of several positions is checked,
and a person should apply them in this situation.
Is this enough?
In general, it is good enough, there is a lot of it,
we already know how to check not only the knowledge, but also the possibility of their manifestation.
But there are situations when a person is capable of pure logic,
or of insufficient, but superficial knowledge,
to give the right answer in the choices he is offered.
But in real life, it often turns out that there is no right answer.
There are deliberately wrong,
and maybe several different right.
It is in such situations that the CTA is often faced with,
which the manager faces in his daily work.
He has to take too many factors into account.
The test or task assumes that its text contains sufficient information.
And in a real working situation,
we often have to face cases when we do not know what information we need,
and whether this case is important or not.
Does this factor play a role?
And generally, as a rule, information is not enough.
And we have to make decisions in the context of a lack of information.
In such situations, such a thing as cases are used for expert assessment.
This is a description of a real situation, but usually without answers.
A person must come up with an answer himself.
And the expert commission decides to what extent this answer can be considered right,
wrong, good or bad.
Often it turns out that the person is given an answer that no one has ever given before.
And suddenly it turns out to be right.
That this can also be done, and nothing terrible will happen,
and the task will be solved.
An example from our area.
You intend to appoint a manager to a staff member,
but you are not sure that he will cope.
How will you do it?
Thus, a person must not only know the position of the labor code,
but also know how long he has been working in this organization,
what else we know about this person,
what are his plans for life, what are our relations with him.
Here it is necessary to show a more complex thing,
that is, managerial competencies.
Are all cases good?
And are they enough to check the assessment of what qualifications,
what competencies the employee has?
Unfortunately, this is not always the case.
Practice shows that theoretical solutions to tasks,
finding and inventing the right answer,
or knowledge of the right answer,
do not always show how a person will behave in a real situation.
And then we use games,
imitation games, practical exercises,
situational tests,
when we create a situation and ask a person to behave in this situation.
How will it look in the situation we are considering?
You intend to assign an employee to a managerial position,
but you are not sure that he will cope.
So, have a conversation with him.
The role of the employee is played by one of the members of the group with which you work,
or you as a coach or an expert.
And in this situation we will consider not only whether a person knows the laws, rules,
not only what decision he will make,
not only what he will do,
but also how he will do it,
what communicative skills he has,
what verbal and non-verbal communication means he will use,
what arguments he will use,
what he is in communication with.
In this case, he must show himself.
This is the most difficult, the most expensive
and the most dubious way of evaluating a person's qualifications.
And this is the most difficult,
simply because games and practical exercises
do not always correspond to the real cases
in which a person comes across in real life.
Nevertheless,
of all the methods of evaluating competence,
this is the most advanced.
Although the difficulty of using it is that
you have to understand what is better and what is worse.
And, of course, it is quite expensive.
It takes a lot of time and requires a special qualification evaluator.
It is not enough to just conduct this exercise,
but also to see and understand what a person's deficit is.
And it is also very important to show him himself
so that he sees that he has this deficit
and wants to overcome it.
The last situation we discussed
when we evaluate a person's qualifications or competence
because he performs a practical task
already creates a certain difficulty.
The evaluation of knowledge on tasks or tests
can be done using a key.
There are correct and incorrect answers.
We can simply calculate how many correct and incorrect answers
a person we evaluate has given.
But how to evaluate correctness in a situation
when there is no such key
and the correct or incorrect answers are somewhat blurred?
This is the topic of quantitative assessments of a person's performance.
How can we evaluate the correctness or incorrectness of a case?
For example, we can create a scale
from correct to incorrect,
say, a 5 or 10-point scale,
and ask our respected experts
to give our evaluated person such assessments.
How can we do it in figure skating?
We can raise the score.
The question is whether these assessments
will be objective or subjective
and what is the difference between 4 and 3,
and 3 and 2.
It is clear that 2 is bad, 3 is average,
and 4 is rather good.
But let's recall a legend.
A student can't know a subject more than 3 points.
Because he knows only the author of the textbook by 5 points,
and he can only know the answer by 4 points,
and the student can only know the answer by 3 points.
We need to find a way
to make this assessment of behavior,
of not having a quantitative assessment,
a quantitative assessment.
Here we come to a new topic
that I would like to start with a small case.
Imagine that we created a list of certain qualities,
for example, discipline, performance,
attitude in the team,
and a couple of other qualities,
and asked the head of the department
to give the assessments to his employees
on a 5-point scale.
It turned out that one of the heads gave everyone 5 points,
the other gave everyone 3 points,
and the third gave everyone 4 points.
What does this mean?
Thank God, if we didn't have the one who gave everyone 2 points.
This means that we failed the assessment,
because we reduced the assessment
to the fact that the head expressed
his general opinion about his employees.
We don't really understand what this opinion is based on.
It is very difficult for us to achieve a situation
when the head of the department
really gives the assessments
in accordance with what he thinks about his employees.
They are all different, right?
It is rare that they are all the same.
Here I offer several technologies.
They are quite common.
Let's look at the slide called simple arranging.
Here they are arranged in simple alphabetical order.
And then I, as a head,
receive the following instruction
from the person who conducts the assessment.
I am asked to identify the best among my 9 employees,
in this case 3 people,
the best ones I have.
I choose Bender, Kareiko and Polukhaev
for different reasons,
but I think they are the best.
Now when I have done this,
I am asked to identify the best among the remaining 3.
I choose Bender, Kareiko and Polukhaev.
The second group is Berlag, Gritsatsuev and Pannikovsky.
Very good.
I identified the best among the remaining 3.
I was asked to do this.
The rest are the worst.
Here we use simple arranging.
Good, bad, average.
But if I had done this,
I would have identified A or B,
without taking any responsibility.
They are all the same.
But the technology we have just seen
is called the forced choice method.
I, as an assessor,
use the technology of assessment
to choose the best, the average and the worst.
What would happen if I was asked
to make a list of people to be fired?
Let's say we decided to reduce the number of employees,
and we think that the number is too large.
I have a department, 9 people,
let's leave 6 people.
How would I react?
In this situation,
I would show my incompetence.
There are cases when the manager says
that he has a small number of people,
and he needs more people.
In this situation,
this approach is effective.
But we did not go into details
why he considers the best employees
and why he divides them.
He simply divided them.
This method can be carried out even easier
by simply asking the assessor
to list all the names
in the order of the increase in the quality of work,
again, according to the criteria
of a good and a bad employee,
in the order of the increase from the best to the worst.
This will make it psychologically more difficult,
because it is clear that several employees
will be equally good, equally bad.
Therefore, the method we have just considered
is more comfortable for the assessor
and morally justified.
Let's consider a more complicated case.
The question is,
if we want to assess not one quality,
not one indicator,
but several,
as we did earlier
with the 360-degree assessment.
Here we use a scale,
which can be extended from three,
but this is not very good,
because you will usually get a 2 for everyone,
and in very rare cases a 1 or a 3.
You can get 5 points,
but there is a high probability
to get 3 and 4 for everyone,
so it is best to use the assessment scales
with a range of 7 or 10 points.
The so-called Likert scale is used,
which is extended from 0 to minus
or from 0 to plus.
In the picture you can see such a scale,
where the assessment goes from minus 3 to plus 3.
Here such indicators are assessed
as workability, productivity, responsibility,
independence, prioritization,
ability to express your thoughts.
The problem is what we mean
by workability, productivity,
independence, prioritization.
If we go back to the 360-degree assessment,
we saw that the person,
his manager and his colleagues
assess him in different ways,
because they look at him from different points of view.
For the manager,
he is one, for his colleagues he is another,
and for his subordinates he can be the third.
This is where the problem arises,
how to agree with the assessor
what is workability,
what is productivity, what is responsibility,
and so on.
To solve this problem,
a special technology called
the standard assessment sheet is created.
This is a standard assessment sheet,
which is used to tell the assessor
what the assessment should mean.
It is not just minus one,
plus one, plus three,
or plus five,
but a clear and unambiguous understanding
of what this assessment means,
what the characteristics, qualities,
and competencies are,
and what the bad assessment is,
what the average assessment is,
and what the good assessment is.
Let's compare two ways
to assess a person.
The standard assessment sheet
and the traditional, classic, free-form assessment sheet.
The assessment sheet is taken off the assessor
and the task is to come up with an assessment.
No one taught him this.
It's a complicated procedure.
Try to write in a free form
your assessment of two or three qualities
of your good friend.
I assure you that this is not easy.
Therefore, it often happens
that people just rewrite the form
from other characteristics.
It turns out that all the characteristics
are very similar to each other.
The second point.
If we use the free-form method,
the assessor always has the opportunity
to miss something,
to give a biased answer,
to give a biased answer.
If we use the standard assessment sheet,
then the person is forced to choose
one of the assessments.
He has no way to give such an answer
that we do not understand what he means.
Further.
The number of interpretations
is practically not given to the free-form characteristics.
It's extremely difficult to do.
The assessment sheet is suitable
for such an interpretation,
because it allows us to create a profile
of the assessment of the employee.
For each of the formulations
of the assessment of certain qualities,
we can hang points.
The last point.
The assessment of many people
is very important.
We evaluate candidates for promotion,
the need for training and development,
the performance of the personnel audit.
The assessment sheet,
which is broadcast in several scales,
allows us to compare employees
and analyze the picture
of the company as a whole.
The free-form characteristics
do not allow us to do this,
because they do not allow
the above-mentioned number of comparisons.
Such assessment sheets
are the most versatile,
convenient and common method
of evaluating quality indicators.
You can find many options in the literature,
but practice shows that
the assessment of the personnel
in each situation,
for each company,
and taking into account the goals
that are set before the assessment,
you will have to develop it yourself.
What are the requirements
for the assessment of the personnel?
The first requirement
is to evaluate the performance
of the personnel in the following terms.
This means that the person
behaves in a certain way,
but does not give an abstract,
vague assessment.
The second requirement
is to evaluate the performance
of the personnel in the following terms.
This significantly reduces
the degree of subjectivity,
but at the same time
allows for quantitative assessment.
The third requirement
is the relevance of the work
and the goals of the assessment.
I would say that
when you invent a form,
you should follow
one simple rule.
If you have a form,
tell yourself
how to use it
when you will be evaluating the personnel.
If you are not able
to explain why you need it,
you should not do it.
This significantly complicates the assessment.
The last requirement
is the principle of reasonable sufficientness.
How many forms should be in the assessment sheet?
As many as you need
to evaluate a person
and a group of people
and to make the necessary decisions.
Usually, this is not required.
Let's look at some examples
of the formulations from the assessment sheet.
For example,
the ability to allocate priorities in work.
The highest grade D
is absolutely clear
and completely independent
and knows how to allocate priorities.
The average grade
is able to allocate priorities,
although it needs to be controlled.
Or let's take the attitude
of the people around them.
The highest grade D
is perfectly in line with the group
and is respected.
The lowest grade
is the conflictive personality
and negatively affects the relationship.
The average grade
is slightly better
and is not attentive to the people around them.
The average grade
is not a serious complaint.
These formulations are quite clear.
It is important to discuss
how a person responds to a particular formulation.
The decision-making process
is much easier for the evaluator.
What else can we say about the assessment sheets?
If we involve the leaders
in the assessment of their subordinates,
and we have to do it almost always,
with a rare exception,
our task is to facilitate
the work of these people.
Let's prepare better,
sharpen our methodology,
make a preliminary approval,
and then start working.
Thus, we solve the problem
of efficiency of assessment.
We do not assign the main work
to the leaders,
but we do it for them.
Thus, you will be able
to facilitate the assessment of your staff
and to win the respect
of the leaders
of the subordinates
you will involve in this work.
The most important part of the lesson
So, dear colleagues,
we are starting
the most important and, I think,
interesting part of our lesson.
We have found out
why the assessment of staff is necessary,
we have found out
what technologies and methods
are used in the assessment of staff,
and now we have to put it all together
and agree on how you will
implement the assessment of staff
in your practice if you are given
such a task.
We will consider the following questions.
First, the criteria of efficiency
of assessment of staff,
what you need to do
and what dangers and obstacles
you need to avoid in order to get
good, pleasant and positive results.
We will see what can prevent this,
and finally we will go through
the algorithm of planning and assessment
of staff.
You can highlight five criteria
The first criteria is the purpose.
You need to clearly formulate the purpose
of the assessment and the criteria for its achievement.
What does it mean?
You need to formulate the purpose of the assessment
of staff in such terms, so that when you
carry it out, you can clearly say whether
it was successful or not.
And if it was not successful, then how many percent?
The second criteria is the result.
As we have already said, the assessment of staff
is not the goal itself.
It is always aimed at achieving
specific results and at performing
some management actions,
decisions and actions in relation to
the staff of our company.
Who to train, who to raise,
who to leave alone,
and who, unfortunately, will have to leave
our company.
Be sure to make decisions based on the results of the assessment.
The third criteria is the effectiveness of the assessment
of costs.
We have already been able to make sure that
the assessment of staff is a difficult and difficult matter.
Therefore, it is not necessary to give a situation
where you have to make a decision
based on the results of the assessment.
The next important criterion is the positive
impact of the assessment on organizational culture
and the relationship of people in the organization.
The assessment of staff should strengthen the organization,
not harm it.
Unfortunately, it often turns out that the assessment
of staff leads to demoralization of employees,
but it is not a problem.
The next criterion is the continuity and development.
It is not necessary to assess the staff once,
and then forget that it exists.
It will be effective if it is carried out regularly,
constantly, at least once a year,
if it is corrected in accordance with the gained experience,
and if it is changed in accordance with the new goals
and tasks of your organization.
This allows you to spend 3-5 years
analyzing the results of the assessment
and see which way the staff policy of your company
and its staff potential are moving.
I must say that today this is one of the most important tasks
of the management of the organization's staff.
What can prevent us?
The first thing that we often face
is the lack of understanding of the company,
the clear understanding of the goals and expected results.
Let's assess the staff. Why?
Well, others do it, and we will assess it.
We also often have to face such a wonderful phrase
that something is stuck in our company,
we need to make something up.
Unfortunately, it turns out that the torment
of the situation in the company
with the help of the assessment of the staff
is more likely to have a negative effect on the situation than a positive one.
The second problem is the inactivity of the management
after the assessment of the staff.
Well, they did it, they made it, they excited everyone,
everyone is terribly interested in what will happen next,
but nothing happens.
And after this nothing, the whole company will treat
the next attempt to assess the staff
as a kind of a ritual, an action that can be participated in or not.
In fact, no one needs it,
let's say, the fanfare of the higher management, no more.
The next very unpleasant obstacle is the resistance
of the management staff to the implementation of innovations.
The axiom of innovation management is that
companies always resist innovations.
Some do not understand why this is necessary,
others see some danger for themselves,
and even a threat.
The third is not sure of their strength
and not sure if they will cope,
whether they are competent with work in new conditions.
And the implementation of the assessment system of the staff
in the company is completely, unfortunately,
falls under these possible obstacles.
First of all, because the main resource
in the assessment of the staff, as we have repeatedly said,
is the managers of the first line.
And they, unfortunately, are often against it.
They do not understand why this is necessary,
they do not know how to do it,
and they have certain moral problems,
the need to assess their staff, which they have never done before.
It is also a need to make pleasant and unpleasant decisions,
and people do not like it very much.
The next danger is the consequence of ineffective PR.
If we do not organize a positive public opinion in the company
about the assessment of the staff,
it will most likely cause suspicion,
rumors, and you know that the radio is usually negative.
In the vast majority of people,
they are more likely to believe in negative gossip and rumors
than in positive.
If you do not conduct a positive PR,
you will be a victim of a negative public opinion.
you will most likely have problems.
The next obstacle is a poorly thought-out methodological assessment.
I mean the technologies and methods we have recently considered.
These technologies and methods must fully meet the tasks set by us
and meet the criteria of efficiency.
Finally, there is also a problem of violating the rights of the assessed persons.
According to the results of the assessment,
we will make administrative decisions.
It often turns out that the decisions and actions taken by the company
according to the results of the assessment,
do not comply with the labor law.
For example, you decided to fire several employees.
You need to prove that your assessment was objective,
that they do not correspond to the position taken.
Otherwise, you will most likely be tried,
and the court may decide not in favor of the company,
but in favor of the offended employee.
What do we need to make the assessment effective?
The first and main requirement is to sponsor the work of the assessed person
by the company's management.
Why?
In this case, sponsorship means approval and direct participation.
The main persons in the company are the people who give the assessment,
who are responsible for the assessment.
The main persons are the people who give the assessment,
The main persons in the company should not just say,
OK, let's make the assessment and see what happens.
They should be actively involved in the assessment.
Then the company will see that it is really important and necessary.
The company's higher management should always set an example for others.
The second requirement is the support of all the participants in the assessment.
What participants?
The participants should be the leaders of the company,
and the employees themselves.
The employees should understand that the company needs them.
They need to be the leaders of the company.
In the best case, people are eagerly waiting for the assessment.
This is a chance for them to get promotion,
to get a better job,
or to go to school.
The next requirement is the distribution of functions and responsibilities of all participants.
This means that everyone who is involved in the assessment should know when, where, what and how to do it.
And also the responsibility.
In particular, the managers should understand what responsibility they bear for the assessment of their employees.
In the best case, this responsibility should be attached to the official responsibilities of the managers.
The next requirement is the procedural and documentary support.
This means that the company should have the necessary documents.
The assessment should be carefully developed.
It is often necessary to include the assessment in the general assessment of the company.
It should be analyzed.
If it does not happen, the assessment of the employees will be lost.
Finally, the implementation of the results and the assessment of the effectiveness of the work.
The assessment of the results is the implementation of the management decisions.
The assessment of the effectiveness of the work.
These are the conditions for the assessment of the employees of your company.
The assessment of the employees of your company should be carried out without irritation, doubt, or disappointment.
What is needed to make the assessment of the employees of the company effective and make it a permanent, convenient and useful tool?
First of all, it must be well planned.
This planning takes place in five steps.
The first thing we should do is determine the goals and expected results.
The second thing is to evaluate the resources we will need, the deadlines of our assessment, and the participants.
The third thing is to choose the technology and the methods we will use.
The fourth thing is to determine who will make the decisions on the results of the assessment.
The fifth thing is to ensure the feedback and the quality of the work.
The sixth thing is to determine the rights of the evaluated employees.
The goals and the expected results.
We must clearly and unambiguously answer the question of what we want to achieve as a result of the assessment of the staff.
The second thing is to determine who is the client or customer of the event.
Who is needed in the company? Who is profitable in the company?
Who is useful in the company?
The next question is what specific management decisions should be made after the assessment of the employees.
What should the evaluation look like?
What should the final results of the assessment look like?
And the last key question is what case we will consider successful.
The next question is about the resources, participants and deadlines of the assessment.
The first key question is the composition of the evaluated employees.
Who will we evaluate? How many of them? Who are they?
Who will participate in the assessment?
Who will evaluate? Who will evaluate?
And who will evaluate?
Will we use the 360-degree assessment?
As we know, it brings good results, but on the other hand, it makes our work much more difficult and long.
The next question is the role of the average management and the higher management of the company.
What functions and duties will be assigned to the managers?
Who will participate in the assessment? Who will evaluate?
And what decisions will be made by the managers after the assessment?
In the end, we can try to estimate how much working time and how the work we have planned will be done.
What are the costs of labor?
How effective will these costs be in terms of the goals we set for ourselves?
And maybe we should try to do without assessment and achieve our results with the help of other management tools?
The next question is technology and methods.
What will we evaluate?
The results of work, competence and skills, behavior of people.
The choice of these methods and technologies is tied to the goals we set for ourselves.
What methods will we use to evaluate?
Do we have them at our disposal?
As a rule, no.
If we only start evaluating the staff of the company, we will have to look for these methods, or even create them ourselves.
As a rule, the methods of assessment, even very good ones, taken from good authoritative sources, will be used in the company.
The next question is the technology of generalization and analysis of results.
If we have to evaluate not only each employee individually, but also the overall picture of the company, we should have this technology in mind from the very beginning.
We should not be in front of a mountain of documents that cannot be combined.
And finally, the format of the report on the results of the assessment for the management.
If the management is the customer and the sponsor of the assessment, it will want to see what you have achieved.
It is very good to coordinate the format of this report before the assessment, so that you and your managers know what will be obtained as a result.
Who and in what order will you present the results of the assessment?
Will they be brought to all customers and all managers of the company in the same format?
As a rule, this is not always correct.
It often turns out that the first persons deserve to receive the information in full, and the separate managers of the departments are, let's say, part of them.
The next question is the quality of the assessment.
The quality of the assessment is very important.
The next question is who and what conclusions should be made?
Who and in what order will make decisions?
Our customers received the results of the assessment.
Who, when and how and what decisions will be made?
This is a very important question, because it is directly based on one of the criteria for the effectiveness of the assessment.
And finally, how will the results be realized?
Imagine that we have made a decision that a significant part of the company's assets will be invested in the development of the company.
And this significant part of the company's employees will need to undergo training.
And how will this be done?
Will you hire and invite third-party performers to your company?
Or will you organize a training center in your company?
And there is also a question of how much it will cost.
And does the company have such resources?
And is it ready to invest them immediately and conduct training for the next two months?
Or will all this work be extended, let's say, for a year?
In other words, in the end, the decisions you make on the results of the assessment should turn into a technical task and a work plan for those who will implement them.
In our case, this is the responsibility for training and development of the staff.
In most companies, it will be the same HR manager or HR director who conducted the assessment.
And finally, the question of feedback.
Having planned the assessment, we must check the feedback.
How legitimate will our actions be in terms of the current labor law?
The second question is in what form the results of the assessment will be brought to the employees.
There are a lot of solutions here, starting from the situation when we can not even inform them that the assessment was carried out.
This is the case when we conduct a personnel audit, primarily based on the existing companies' statistical data on the work of our employees.
And we can conduct a separate, serious, large interview with each of them.
The question of feedback is directly related to the important topic of the relationship, organizational culture and the influence of the events we conduct on it.
The last question that must be addressed is the possibility of a series of appeals.
Imagine that you have decided that Bender, Gritsatsuev, and Khrushchev are not responsible for the work of the company.
And you have decided that Khrushchev, Balaganov, and Kozlevich are involved in the reserve movement.
But for some reason, Panikovsky was not involved, you did not like him.
Would he like to become a manager? He has been waiting for a promotion in his service for a long time.
Does he have the right to express his point of view or not?
In what format can your employees express their attitude to the results of the assessment, appeal, argue?
This is also necessary to consider.
Dear colleagues, we have come to the end of our course.
Now I will ask you to complete the task from your workbook to the fourth chapter.
And then, what is the most interesting, I ask you to solve the case about the company Siniybuival.
I want to say right away that this case is not made up.
It is taken from real practice of a real company.
And the events that you will learn about took place in 2007.
I must add that to solve this case, you will need almost all the knowledge,
almost everything that we have gone through throughout our course.
So you can consider this a graduation exam.
How well you will cope with it, we will find out after you give answers to all the questions of this case.
It may turn out that your decisions will be even more elegant, more interesting than those that I will offer you.
So, colleagues, I hope that you have successfully completed the tasks.
And now let's try to compare the decision of the case that you gave with some of the considerations that I have given.
Let's start with the question number one.
How useful is it to start solving the problems of the company with the assessment of the staff?
What other actions should be taken?
This is a very important question, because, as we have already said many times,
the assessment of the staff is just a tool.
And if you can use other tools instead of it, then you should probably try to do it.
And in some cases, other tools are generally necessary.
Let's recall what effective staff management is.
This is when the right people are in the right places.
What do we know about the organization of the Blue Buoy?
Now it is going through a very difficult stage in its biography,
which is very typical for many of our companies.
This is a sharp growth, a sharp quantitative growth,
which naturally leads to a qualitative growth.
Relationships become more complicated, new people appear.
The previous semi-family atmosphere, when everyone does everything,
is no longer effective.
If you read the text of the case carefully,
you could notice that the company does not have a clear structure.
It means that before solving the issue with the staff and its assessment,
it is necessary to solve the issue with the places where these right people should be.
Are these places organized correctly?
Most likely, this company needs to reorganize management,
to change the management tools,
to introduce technologies that are more suitable for its current content
and the current problems it faces,
and to improve the current stage of its development.
But the company decided to start with people.
What are the problems that the company is trying to solve with the help of staff assessment?
The breakdown of projects,
the claims of clients,
the care of clients.
Should we start solving these problems with the assessment of the staff?
But I would probably first look at what projects were made poorly,
what was done wrong,
what needs to be changed in the organization of the company's work,
and then think about the assessment of the staff.
The second question is how clearly and constructively the goals of the assessment are formulated.
I think that they are quite specific and clear.
There are three goals.
The first is to improve the staff's qualifications.
The second is to change the motivation system.
The third is to regroup people in accordance with their abilities and capabilities.
These are quite noble and specifically formulated goals.
It is difficult to refute their design.
The only thing that is missing is a clear explanation of what we will do
after these goals are implemented.
The third question is how the measures carried out by the company
by Siniy Boevel correspond to the criteria of the efficiency of the staff assessment system.
But it is not so easy to answer this question.
Let's recall the criteria of the efficiency of the staff assessment system
and go over them from top to bottom.
The first criterion is purposefulness.
We have already concluded that the goals set by the company
could be achieved in other ways.
But the goals of the assessment itself are formulated quite clearly.
The second criterion is the effectiveness of the decisions
made on the basis of the assessment.
As we have seen, the assessment did not produce any special results.
Therefore, the decisions were made on a completely different basis.
The question is whether the director of Siniy Boevel could have made the same decisions
without the assessment.
If he had made the decisions, he could have done so.
The third criterion is the efficiency of the costs.
It is difficult to assess the efficiency of the costs,
because we have not received any results.
As we know, there is no point in dividing by zero in mathematics.
The fourth criterion is the positive influence on the organizational culture.
We do not have the data on what the employees began to do,
speak, think and behave after the assessment.
We do not have the data on how the employees filled the assessment sheets
and what happened as a result.
I remind you that the situation was that the company was doing poorly,
but everyone was doing well.
Most likely, they were very formal about this procedure
and it did not affect the organization's situation.
Finally, the success of the development.
If the company fails to make an assessment, it must continue to do so.
In this case, we do not have the data on the decisions of the director.
It is possible that the best option would be to repeat the assessment next year,
but taking into account all the shortcomings and problems
that arose based on the previous experience.
I hope this experience was useful for the company.
The fourth question is how to characterize the technology of assessment
used in the company Blue Buoyant.
If we look at the questionnaires that the employees filled,
we will see that no special technology was used here.
This is a cocktail of all the technologies that we discussed.
Here is a template of the test stations,
since the questionnaire is filled in an open form.
There are no options for answers.
There are some elements of the 360-degree assessment,
but we do not understand how they were used,
because it is not clear who assessed whom.
In short, the following happened in this situation.
The organizers of this assessment took the elements of almost all technologies
that are used for this above all.
None of them was used to the end.
But we must say that they took not the strongest sides of these technologies,
so they probably had problems.
The fifth question is about the formal attitude
of the company's employees to the assessment.
If you look at the questionnaires that the company employees filled,
you will see that it is extremely difficult to give an answer
to most of these questions.
Try to do this exercise.
Take the questionnaire and answer as you would answer.
People who are given such questions
may consider that the questions are too intimate.
They may think that the company does not need to know
their point of view on the questions that are asked,
for example, about strategic plans for the future.
Moreover, the reaction of the employees,
which is indicated in the text of our case,
shows that the preparation, PR,
the attention of the employees to the assessment,
the explanation of why it is being carried out and what results await them,
was probably not carried out very well.
What actions of the assessment organizers would have allowed to avoid formalism?
The first thing is to choose the right tool for the assessment.
The second thing is to carry out high-quality PR
and to attract the main participants of the assessment,
that is, the direct managers, to their side.
The sixth point is to give your assessment
using the 1.2 application method.
What do they correspond to and what do they not correspond to
in the 1.2 application method?
The first thing that draws attention to itself is that there are a lot of questions,
and the vast majority of these questions do not relate to the goals of the assessment.
The second point is that the organizers did not take the trouble
to offer the assessment options.
Therefore, after filling out the application,
they had to come up with them themselves.
Most likely, they decided to free themselves from this work,
so they gave some average and positive,
and most likely the same ratings for all positions.
The seventh question is how to change the format of the content of both surveys.
Most likely, standardized assessment sheets should be developed.
Most likely, each question should have 5-6 different answers.
Of course, they should be made politically correct,
that is, it is quite difficult not to force people to answer the questions
that they can answer.
And, judging by the fact that the company has such a family atmosphere,
people are simply afraid to spoil the relationship with their subordinates.
It would probably be better not to use a scale in the 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 mode,
which is immediately associated with good or bad,
but to give options for answers, possibly with indexing by letter,
and, of course, to remember the principle of reasonable sufficiency
and reduce the number of answers to the minimum necessary.
Finally, the last question.
How can the results and consequences of the assessment
affect its implementation next year?
I am afraid that it will be negative,
primarily because people have already seen that the assessment is conducted formally once,
that it can be conducted formally twice,
and that the results of the assessment are taken into account when distributing the prize,
and there will be no three motivations.
So, most likely, we will meet resistance again,
at best passive, and maybe even active resistance of the assessment staff.
Therefore, the first thing to do is to conduct an audit
based on the data that the company has,
on the experience of the employees, on the participation in certain projects,
on the results of the work in these projects,
whether the projects were completed or not, who made what mistakes.
All this can be done without disturbing people.
As a second stage of the assessment,
the survey of both employees and their managers can be conducted.
But, of course, by constructing assessment lists in a completely different way,
by correctly and clearly formulating possible assessment options,
it is absolutely necessary to attract the managers of the departments,
to conduct very serious work with them,
and to show not only what the company will receive for conducting the assessment,
but also why it is needed by them as a manager,
what management tools it gives them,
and to remove the anxiety of people,
and to show that the negative results of the assessment
will not seriously affect the atmosphere of the company,
but, on the contrary, will contribute to its prosperity and further development.
These are the answers I would offer to these questions.
Compare them with those you gave.
Maybe you were more successful than I was.
If the results of the answers to these questions are close enough,
then you have successfully completed the assessment course.
And, most likely, if you have to face this difficult task in practice,
you will succeed.
I wish you all the best. Thank you for your attention.